In this lesson, we're going to examine how
to use the for loop with a dictionary.
So lets open up a new python program so we
can review how dictionaries work.
So there's our program, fordict.py.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So, a dictionary involves storing key
value pairs.
So for example if I want to keep track of
a phone book, I might have a name and an
extension.
And so I'll have as many names and
extensions as I need.
I'm just going to do three for this
example.
And we'll stop there.
And remember that dictionaries are
delimited with curly braces.
An opening curly brace to begin the
dictionary,
and a closing curly brace to close the
dictionary.
If we want to display a value from a
dictionary,
we have to index into that value with a
key.
So, for example, if I wanna see Cynthia's
extension, I have to
use Cynthia as the index into the
dictionary to display her extension.
So, let's take a look at that.
We'll save it.
Bring the command window up.
And there we see that her extension is
2356.
Also, remember that we can display both
the keys
in a dictionary and the values using the
keys and values function respectively.
So let's review how they work.
So the first list are my keys, and the
second list contains my values.
Let's clear the screen.
So now we've seen how to do that, let's
discuss
how we can use a for loop to display our
dictionary.
We can write for key in numbers.keys and
remember keys will return a list of keys.
So this becomes our sequence that then, we
are going to
pull each key out and put it in the key
variable.
We can say print numbers sub-key.
Let's make our output a little more
reasonable.
We can say, key extension is, and then
number sub-key.
And so, that should print out each name
and
the value or the extension associated with
that value.
And there we go.
Cynthia extension is 2356.
Raymond extension is 2345.
David extension is 2373.
So this was a very quick lesson, but it's
very useful because it's almost a given
that when
you set up a dictionary you're gonna want
to
display all the values in that dictionary
based on keys.
And to do that all you have to do is set
up a very simple for loop where you
sequence the keys
and then pull out each key into a variable
and then
use it to display the value that's
associated with the key.
So with that we're ready to move to the
last lesson in this
chapter, and we're going to discuss how to
use for loops with files.